---
title: 'SSRF Vulnerabilty'
date: 2012-08-14
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Vulnerability
  - OWASP TOP 10
  - ssrf
---
What is SSRF ?
SSRF stands for server-side request forgery. It is one of the most popular web security vulnerabilities exploited by hackers and security researchers.

It is a security vulnerability where an attacker can abuse the available functionalities in a server-side application to access internal server files, resources leading to potentially sensitive information disclosure.


======
Types of SSRF
Non-Blind SSRF: This is a type of SSRF where an application fetches the requested resource and directly presents it on the front end. The whole output is clearly visible to the user/attacker.

Blind SSRF: This is an interesting and very common type of SSRF where the HTTP request for requesting resources is made by the server but the output isn’t visible on the frontend. In simple words, the resource is requested by the server but not displayed to the user/attacker. There are certain ways of exploiting this type of SSRF vulnerabilities and we will cover them further in this blog.

Semi-blind SSRF: In this type of SSRF, a resource is requested but the complete output isn’t visible to the user but instead it can be file metadata, parts of the file, complete file path in the form of stack trace errors, and more.

This is called semi blind because the data is partially available, unlike blind SSRF where nothing is visible on the frontend. To exploit semi-blind SSRF, similar ways of exploiting blind SSRFs can be used.
 
======

sdasda
------